[Excel] (PivotTables) Add new PivotFilter article section (#2336)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/excel-add-ins-pivottables.md

});
```

## Filter a PivotTable

> The Excel JavaScript API offers two methods for filtering PivotTable data: PivotFilters and slicers. [PivotFilters](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotfilters) allow you to filter data based on a PivotTable's four [hierarchy categories](#hierarchies) (filters, columns, rows, and values). [Slicers](/javascript/api/excel/excel.slicer) can be applied to both PivotTables and regular Excel tables. The `Slicer` class, like [its Excel UI counterpart](https://support.office.com/article/Use-slicers-to-filter-data-249f966b-a9d5-4b0f-b31a-12651785d29d), allows for style and formatting customization. `PivotFilters` do not offer style or formatting flexibility. 

Reviewer: Somewhere, this article needs to address the relationship between PivotFilters and a PivotHierarchy. That's hard to determine just through the ref docs and a great candidate for a conceptual article topic.

### Filter with PivotFilters

[PivotFilters](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotfilters) allow you to filter PivotTable data based on four [hierarchy categories](#hierarchies) (filters, columns, rows, and values). In the PivotTable object model, `PivotFilters` are contained within [PivotHierarchies](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivothierarchy). A PivotFilter can only be applied to a PivotHierarchy that is used to pivot data within the table.

#### Types of PivotFilters

| Filter type | Filter purpose | Excel JavaScript API reference |
|:--- |:--- |:--- |
| DateFilter | Calendar date-based filtering. | [PivotDateFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotdatefilter) |
| LabelFilter | Text comparison filtering. | [PivotLabelFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotlabelfilter) |
| ManualFilter | Custom input filtering. | [PivotManualFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotmanualfilter) |
| ValueFilter | Number comparison filtering. | [PivotValueFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotvaluefilter) |

#### Create a PivotFilter

> The following four code samples show how to use each filter described in the preceding [Types of PivotFilters](#types-of-pivotfilters) table. The first code sample applies a [PivotDateFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotdatefilter) to the **Date Updated** hierarchy, hiding any data prior to a specified date. 

Reviewer: Consider adding an H5 for each filter type before the snippet and the explanatory copy.

```js
Excel.run(function (context) {
    // Get the PivotTable and the date hierarchy.
    var pivotTable = context.workbook.worksheets.getActiveWorksheet().pivotTables.getItem("Farm Sales");
    var dateHierarchy = pivotTable.rowHierarchies.getItemOrNullObject("Date Updated");
    
    return context.sync().then(function () {
        // PivotFilters can only be applied to PivotHierarchies that are being used for pivoting.
        // If it's not already there, add "Date Updated" to the hierarchies.
        if (dateHierarchy.isNullObject) {
          dateHierarchy = pivotTable.rowHierarchies.add(pivotTable.hierarchies.getItem("Date Updated"));
        }

        // Apply a date filter to filter out anything logged before August.
        var filterField = dateHierarchy.fields.getItem("Date Updated");
        var dateFilter = {
          condition: Excel.DateFilterCondition.afterOrEqualTo,
          comparator: {
            date: "2020-08-01",
            specificity: Excel.FilterDatetimeSpecificity.month
          }
        };
        filterField.applyFilter({ dateFilter: dateFilter });
        
        return context.sync();
    });
});
```

> [!NOTE]

> > The three subsequent code snippets display only filter-specific excerpts and are not complete code samples. See the preceding code sample for a complete `PivotFilter` implementation example.

Reviewer: It's hard to define what a "complete" code sample would be (since all these snippets aren't a complete application). Consider 
```suggestion
> The three subsequent code snippets only display filter-specific excerpts, instead of full `Excel.run` calls.
```

@Rick-Kirkham, do you have any thoughts about how to frame these smaller code snippets (if at all)?

> The second code snippet demonstrates how to apply a [PivotLabelFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotlabelfilter) to the **Type** hierarchy, using the `LabelFilterCondition.beginsWith` property to exclude specific labels. 

Reviewer: It might be misleading to say this filter is acting on specific labels, since it's using text parsing to generalize which labels are filtered.

});
```

## Filter a PivotTable

The primary method for filtering PivotTable data is with PivotFilters. Slicers offer an alternate, less flexible filtering method. 

> [PivotFilters](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotfilters) filter data based on a PivotTable's four [hierarchy categories](#hierarchies) (filters, columns, rows, and values). There are four types of PivotFilters, allowing calendar date-based filtering, string parsing, number comparison, and filtering based on a custom input. 

Reviewer: Might be worth having a line that reconciles PivotFilters and FilterPivotHierarchy. Perhaps in the hierarchy section? This could be done as a separate PR (so you can look at this with fresh eyes.

Author: Internal tracking info: [work item 4697638](https://office.visualstudio.com/OC/_workitems/edit/4697638)

> [Slicers](/javascript/api/excel/excel.slicer) can be applied to both PivotTables and regular Excel tables. When applied to a PivotTable, slicers function like a [PivotManualFilter](#pivotmanualfilter) and allow filtering based on a custom input. Unlike PivotFilters, slicers have an [Excel UI component](https://support.office.com/article/Use-slicers-to-filter-data-249f966b-a9d5-4b0f-b31a-12651785d29d). With the `Slicer` class, you create this UI component, manage filtering, and can control its visual appearance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Slicers](/javascript/api/excel/excel.slicer) can be applied to both PivotTables and regular Excel tables. When applied to a PivotTable, slicers function like a [PivotManualFilter](#pivotmanualfilter) and allow filtering based on a custom input. Unlike PivotFilters, slicers have an [Excel UI component](https://support.office.com/article/Use-slicers-to-filter-data-249f966b-a9d5-4b0f-b31a-12651785d29d). With the `Slicer` class, you create this UI component, manage filtering, and control its visual appearance. 
```

> See [Filter with PivotFilters](#filter-with-pivotfilters) and [Filter with slicers](#filter-with-slicers) to learn more about filtering data with Excel JavaScript APIs.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if you need this line, since both those sections are contained within this section.

### Filter with PivotFilters

[PivotFilters](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotfilters) allow you to filter PivotTable data based on the four [hierarchy categories](#hierarchies) (filters, columns, rows, and values). In the PivotTable object model, `PivotFilters` are applied to a [PivotField](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotfield), and each `PivotField` can have one or more assigned `PivotFilters`. To apply PivotFilters to a PivotField, the field's corresponding [PivotHierarchy](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivothierarchy) must be assigned to a hierarchy category. 

#### Types of PivotFilters

| Filter type | Filter purpose | Excel JavaScript API reference |
|:--- |:--- |:--- |
| DateFilter | Calendar date-based filtering. | [PivotDateFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotdatefilter) |
| LabelFilter | Text comparison filtering. | [PivotLabelFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotlabelfilter) |
| ManualFilter | Custom input filtering. | [PivotManualFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotmanualfilter) |
| ValueFilter | Number comparison filtering. | [PivotValueFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotvaluefilter) |

#### Create a PivotFilter

> To filter PivotTable data with a Pivot*Filter (such as a PivotDateFilter), apply the filter to a [PivotField](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotfield). The following four code samples show how to use each of the four types of PivotFilters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To filter PivotTable data with a `Pivot*Filter` (such as a PivotDateFilter), apply the filter to a [PivotField](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotfield). The following four code samples show how to use each of the four types of PivotFilters. 
```

Author: I think that in this location and the following comment on line 257, Pivot*Filter is referring to an individual filter as a concept and not referring to a specific class, so it shouldn't be wrapped in code ticks. I think this logic would apply to every instance of a class using a * to denote variations. Plus, since Pivot*Filter can't be directly copy/pasted into code as a functional element, I think it's confusing to wrap it in code ticks. Perhaps in this line `PivotDateFilter` should be wrapped in code ticks.

Author: (Italics only used because the lone _*_ was causing weird italicization of the entire paragraph)

Reviewer: That's fair. My precedent was the [*OrNullObject copy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev/add-ins/develop/application-specific-api-model?view=excel-js-preview#ornullobject-methods-and-properties) Maybe that shouldn't be in code ticks.

Author: Thanks for the example! Yes, I also argue *OrNullObject shouldn't be wrapped in code ticks because it's a concept and not a literal element one can copy into code.

Reviewer: Cool. Let's flag that as something to figure out outside of this PR. Maybe a topic for a future team meeting?

Author: Will do! Internal tracking info: [work item 4697626](https://office.visualstudio.com/OC/_workitems/edit/4697626/)

##### PivotDateFilter

The first code sample applies a [PivotDateFilter](/javascript/api/excel/excel.pivotdatefilter) to the **Date Updated** PivotField, hiding any data prior to **2020-08-01**. 

> [!IMPORTANT] 

> > A Pivot*Filter can't be applied to a PivotField unless that field's PivotHierarchy is assigned to a hierarchy category. In the following code sample, the `dateHierarchy` must be added to the PivotTable's `rowHierarchies` category before it can be used for filtering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A `Pivot*Filter` can't be applied to a PivotField unless that field's PivotHierarchy is assigned to a hierarchy category. In the following code sample, the `dateHierarchy` must be added to the PivotTable's `rowHierarchies` category before it can be used for filtering.
```
